
for fruit, qty in purchases:
    total += fruit_prices.get(fruit, 0) * qty       # in case fruit is not found, we return 0 instead of None to avoid getting errors
return total


- map(function, iterable) applies a function to each element of an iterable (like a list) and returns a map object (an iterator).
- The function itself is passed without parentheses — you don’t call it directly.
- map() automatically calls the function for each element.


def is_all_has_a(words:list)->bool:
    return map(lambda w: "a" in w.lower(), words)       # here it works like "and" operator, it returns first falsy value btw true and false

- enumerate(items, start=1) gives out tuples starting from 1
- eumerate prints like: 1 item1
                        2 item2


<!--****************************************  -->
<!--****************************************  -->



# Some dict methods:

- d.clear()                        : Removes all key–value pairs from the dictionary, making it empty.
- d.copy()                         : Creates a shallow copy of the existing dictionary.
  Note deepcopy() doesnot works for dict, so need to import copy library and do: copy.deepcopy(original_dict)
- d.fromkeys(keys, value=None)     : Creates a new dictionary from a sequence "keys", assigning the same value to all keys.
- d.get(key, default=None)         : Returns the value of "key" if it exists; otherwise returns "default".
                                      Note: does NOT raise an error if the key is missing.
- d[key]                           : Returns the value of "key" from the dictionary.
                                      Note: raises KeyError if the key is not found.
- d.items()                        : Returns a dynamic view of all (key, value) pairs in the dictionary as tuples.
- d.keys()                         : Returns a dynamic dict_keys view object of all keys (not a list or tuple).
- d.values()                       : Returns a dynamic dict_values view object of all values in the dictionary.
- d.pop(key[, default])            : Removes the key and returns its value; if the key is missing, returns "default" or raises KeyError.
- d.popitem()                      : Removes and returns the last inserted (key, value) pair as a tuple.
- d.setdefault(key, default=None)  : Returns the value of the key if it exists; otherwise adds the key with "default" and returns it.
- d.update([(5, 6)])               : Updates dict with an iterable of (key, value) pairs.
- d.update(b=2, c=3)               : Updates with keyword arguments.
- d.update({'b': 3, 'c': 4})       : Merges another dictionary into d, modifying it in place and returning None.
- d | {5: 6}                       : The | operator is used to merge dictionaries. (union)


- Dictionary keys are always immutable



# min() adv:
- min works on any iterable, it always takes an iterable as input eg: min([9, 4, 5, 1, 2])

- In this case, it is creating an iterable out of that function + existing iterable
- min(iterable, key=function)   

#Working:
==> Takes each item from the iterable.  
==> Passes it to the given function (key).
==> Compares the returned values to find the smallest one.
==> Returns the original item that produced the smallest value.

- eg:   
words = ["apple", "pear", "banana"]
print(min(words, key=len))

- eg:
min(fruit_prices, key=fruit_prices.get)   
==> here fruit_prices is a dict of name: price pairs    


<!--****************************************  -->
<!--****************************************  -->


# Filter vs Map:
- map(function, iterable) → applies the function to every element and returns the result of the function for each element.
list(map(lambda x: x > 5, numbers))        Output: [True, False, True]

- filter(function, iterable) → applies the function to each element, but keeps only those elements where the function returns True.
list(filter(lambda x: x > 5, numbers))     Output: [6, 8]


<!--****************************************  -->
<!--****************************************  -->


# all() vs any()
- all(map(lambda w: "a" in w.lower(), words))      : True if every word has “a”
- any(map(lambda w: "a" in w.lower(), words))      : True   if at least one word has “a”



<!--****************************************  -->
<!--****************************************  -->


# Enumerate:
- Enumerate returns an iterable enumerate object of tuples  : <enumerate object at 0x7f...>
- so convert to list or other datatype before printing

print(list(enumerate(fruits, start=1)))
[
  (1, 'watermelon'),
  (2, 'guava'),
  (3, 'kiwi')
]

- dict(enumerate(fruits))   ==> creates a dictionary of index as key and fruit as value of the key



<!--****************************************  -->
<!--****************************************  -->


# zip:
- zip returns an iterable zip object of tuples              : <zip object at 0x7f...>
- so convert to list or other datatype before printing

print(list(zip(nums, strs)))    ==>      [(1, 'x'), (2, 'y'), (3, 'z')]
print("".join(map(lambda x: x[0]* x[1], zip(chars, repeats))))      ==> here chars, repeats are two seperate lists




